hello world i grew up in canada and this
is what clip art looks like
at least it's what i thought clip art
looked like until i found out about
irastoya a free japanese clip art site i
was in need of some japanese related
clip art for one of my videos and it had
everything i desired a prime minister a
governor a mayor and a 100 yen coin i
could have used western style clip art
but it would have looked more like this
this is seriously some of the best
choices i got when i filtered for
creative commons clip art in microsoft
word microsoft stopped offering their
own clipart back in 2014 and switched to
pulling images off the internet using
bing search which for those of you who
have no clue what i just said is like
microsoft's version of google search why
does japan's clip art look so uniform
and high quality whereas a search for
clip art in english pulls up stuff like
this
if i was going to tell my story about
how i came to japan this is what it
would look like using japanese clip art
why did i move to japan
well my wife's japanese and that pretty
much tells the story doesn't it
okay a few more details when we got
married we lived in canada and had two
kids a boy and a girl but after the 2011
tohoku earthquake and tsunami my wife
wanted to be back in japan close to
family so we moved
of course the story is more complicated
than that but that's the very simple
version
now i'll tell the exact same story using
creative commons clip art why did i move
to japan
well my wife's japanese and that pretty
much tells the story doesn't it
okay a few more details when we got
married we lived in canada and had two
kids a boy and a girl but after the 2011
tohoku earthquake and tsunami my wife
wanted to be back in japan close to
family so we moved
of course the story is more complicated
than that but that's the very simple
version
so why does japan's clip art look so
consistently good the simple answer is
mifune takashi
he started uploading illustrations to a
site daily on january 31st 2012 and has
basically been doing it ever since
although due to the high volume of other
work he doesn't create new art as
regularly as he used to you can find his
artwork everywhere youtubers use them to
help illustrate concepts nhk the
japanese government-owned national
broadcaster will use them in their news
articles they'll be used notices for
students they'll be found in health
insurance handouts you can find them in
health posters my japanese teacher even
uses them for her lessons so why has
practically everyone in japan both seen
and used takashi-san's clipart first of
all it's basically free i'll expand on
this later and it's very easy to use
just search for what you want and
download pro tip make sure to click on
the image first so that you can save the
higher quality version
secondly there's a ton of images and
he's got most situations covered need
some kovid related stuff
no problem
want some historical technology he's got
you
like to go back in history he's also got
your back there's illustrations for
modern issues
and one's for the changing times
there's even one of me editing
and then there's just cool ninja stuff i
would keep on showing you great clip art
but it's literally costing me every time
i do which i'll get to but thirdly and
this is sounding like when i had to
write school reports the artwork is
consistent and is quality his style
across all images is similar so when you
use multiple images of his they'll all
work together
if you go to other sites there will be
multiple contributors and thus the
styles may not match well together
fourth of all the usage rules are simple
you don't need to be a member so no
signing up and creating passwords anyone
can use up to 20 images for a school
lesson video poster basically any
project for free
fifthly the artwork is just good yes
that's a subjective opinion but i just
wanted to go up to fifthly because i
like the sound of it
so i keep on saying the artwork is
basically free so what's the catch if
you read the nitty gritty of the terms
of usage you can't use it for illegal or
naughty stuff but in general you can use
it for whatever you want and importantly
for commercial purposes for commercial
usage there is a cap of 20 illustrations
per project web page video or thing you
create
after that you pay 1 000 yen per extra
illustration which is like 9 us dollars
there are some faqs that really get into
the minute details but for the average
user you can simply use the images and
not worry about it and that's what the
majority of clipart users want an easy
no fuss way to illustrate what they want
to communicate
so irastoya is a place to find a
plethora of images check easy to use
check basically free
check high quality check topical check
the go to site for japanese clipart
check
so how does this dude make money
i wish i could ask takashi but here's
his stance on interviews
here's the google translate version
i'm not good at it so i refuse really
sorry despite not being able to
interview the man i think it's easy to
deduce that he does make money from a
few things he has ads on a site so page
views equals cash from those using the
images commercially he gets an extra
thousand yen for each image used over 20
merch and collaborations like his collab
with a messaging app line to create
stickers and his very own line of cute
things using mascots he created
the thing i found most surprising is
that takashi san does all the artwork
himself i for sure thought he would have
had others helping him out when we wrote
him and by we i mean my wife saying we
wanted to make a video about him for
youtube and that we may end up showing
hundreds of images as we talk about his
site he said sure that's fine it's just
an extra thousand yen per image over 20.
now that we're at this point in the
video we'll see if i blurt a ton of
photos to not break the bank on making
this or if he decided that this was
educational or news like enough that
we're permitted to show the amount of
illustrations that we did without going
too crazy on the over 20 budget
and the final price tag for making this
video is
[Music]
so when making this video i used
openclipart.org to get my western style
clip art i did my best to find images
that matched well but like here's what
japanese woman pops up what image would
work for my wife
let's try out map of japan
some interesting options
let's just try japan
yeah there's some unique stuff out there
you can literally see why it's hard to
find good clip art
you can also see that i did try to find
decent clip art for when i briefly told
my story about coming to japan but it
was tough so the cool thing about
openclipart.org is that all their images
are said to be in the public domain and
thus free to use without copyright
worries
this is of course as long as the
contributors actually have the rights to
the images when they upload
but yeah you can see why takashi-san's
basically free clip art is so ubiquitous
in japan
thanks for watching see you next time
peace
can the illustrations be used outside of
japan
monday arimasen no problem